suppose I were to tell you that there
was a major leader a vocal advocate in
the vegan movement who wears leather
shoes and not accidentally not once in a
while not in transition not due to
poverty so many consciously
intentionally makes the decision to buy
and wear leather shoes you might say
she's not vegan suppose I were to tell
you that there is another vegan who is a
vocal advocate for veganism and a leader
in the movement who believes that you do
no harm to an animal when killing it who
believes that it is acceptable to kill
animals so long as you treat them with
compassion prior to being killed who
supports the idea of use and
exploitation of animals varying from
castration of animals all the way over
to taking eggs from hens that are kept
in your house and eating the eggs whole
range of things you might respond to
that by saying well she's not vegan it
is not surprising that of these two
people I'm alluding to one being fully
well Christina the other being a natural
vegan that the latter unnatural vegan
has lately made some mealy-mouthed
excuses for the former for the fact that
fully raw Christina has been wearing
shoes and a natural vegan says that
really doesn't matter from her
perspective well yes a natural vegan
given that you have consistently and
dogmatically defended the insane and
immoral philosophy of Peter Singer a
so-called utilitarian in a so-called
consequentialist it is not surprising to
me that you would laugh at a serious
matter of wearing leather shoes I think
that wearing leather shoes is a very
serious ethical decision and I think it
is a decision some people have no choice
about if you're on military service just
due to extreme poverty or what have you
but those are not the circumstances
we're discussing here
not at all are they and I think this
does open a window onto a fairly serious
profound question of the legacy of Peter
Singer and utilitarianism in veganism
today because if we are being honest
with ourselves even if you emotionally
feel some sense of gratitude towards
Peter Singer even if you feel the
decades ago he inspired you to get
interested in vegetarianism or veganism
even if you see him as being a major
voice in animal rights the reality is by
our understanding of veganism today in
2017 Peter Singer is not vegan the idea
that you can kill an animal without
harming it is not vegan I have a
quotation here from Peter Singer I would
like to read verbatim and is indeed not
a very flattering quotation you can find
other places where he says this more
elegantly uses more um academic language
um quote there might be some people who
say you can't be compassionate if you
end up killing the animals I think
that's wrong I think as long as the
standards really are compassionate ones
that do as much as they can to give the
animals decent lies before they're
killed I don't have a problem with it
close quote that's Peter Singer that's
Peter singers position Peter singers
position which a natural vegan does her
best to now the words of is that it's
okay to kill an animal it's okay to
castrate an animal it's okay to
domesticate an animal he believes it's
okay well let's keep it clear a natural
vegan even believes that it's okay
under some circumstances to use an
animal to produce milk and then to
consume that milk or chickens to produce
eggs because she subscribes to this
fundamentally absurd view that animals
lack a continuity of consciousness they
lack a level of intelligence that would
make them aware of the few
sure be able to imagine think about the
future and the past in a way that would
entitle them to the right not to die not
to be killed for human convenience not
to be castrated domesticated have their
will broken turned into a toy in a
plaything for human entertainment not to
live their whole life on a concrete
floor in a shed never seeing a member of
the opposite sex of their species never
having anything like a natural life just
to produce milk for human consumption
milk that is not necessary it's not good
for your health
but there is a very real sense in which
unnatural vegan is not vegan and she's
aware of this tension I have an
interview here where the I'll give the
link below this video the interviewer
asked her directly about the connection
between her philosophy her view of the
world
and Peter Singer the utilitarian
tradition the utility tradition with Ian
veganism all those who say that is not
it's not vegan would you describe
yourself as utilitarian the interviewer
asks or as I often find in the case of
philosophy is it more complicated than
that
she replies yes I would I guess I'm just
a dirty utilitarian welfarist
in all seriousness I believe
consequences and context matter not
rules or concepts that mean nothing to
creatures that do not have the
intellectual capacity to understand them
so pause remember what we're talking
about here this is crucial to Peter
singers whole philosophy of veganism
she's actually claiming that an animal
doesn't have the capacity to understand
the difference between life and death
she's actually claiming that these
animals like a pig doesn't have the
capacity to understand the difference
between being castrated and not castrate
that a dog a dog that literally
licks its own balls a dog that has a
nose so well tuned to detect the
hormones of ism's bees a dog can't tell
the difference to whether it's been
castrated or not and that a pig has no
interest in has no capacity appreciate
the difference between a life as a wild
boar in the forest foraging finding its
own food and its life as a pet as a
plaything being fed from a human hand a
life in a pack whether talking but a
pack of wolves or a pack of wild boars
socializing within its own species as
opposed to a life just existing for
human entertainment for human needs
you really think no I don't know I do
not think that pigs or dogs have the
language to reflect on these things but
if you think they can't appreciate that
if you think there's any animal endowed
with eyes and ears and a brain that is
not aware of that cannot appreciate the
difference between whether it is alive
or dead you've gone very far down this
consequentialist road you've really
bought into a delusion that that in is a
delusion that was created for what
reason this this this illusion that an
animal doesn't care if you kill it it
only cares that you kill it humanely
that's a myth only made up for human
convenience that's not a myth that's
derived from research into animal
intelligence animal behavior or even
animal welfare as she's brought the term
welfare that's that's a myth that only
serves our convenience as humans and
it's not vegan so she continues for
instance Gary Fred Sione and other
vegans would say that animal
exploitation is wrong regardless of the
consequences
I would argue that exploitation only
matters when it causes harm in which
case it is really the
harm that matters so pause so again
she's extended that she herself extent
of this to include eating chicken eggs
if the chickens are raised in a family's
backyard or milk from cows under some
sufficiently happy circumstances is
anyone stupid enough to imagine that a
cow is not harmed by living its whole
life in a shed to produce milk for human
beings now there may be since that cow
maybe you don't brand it with a number
maybe you don't cut its ear to put a tag
in it maybe you add cushions in the shed
maybe you have a silk lined shed the
most beautiful cowshed imaginable for
this cow to live its life and produce
milk for consumption and a few religious
groups do that there are some small
Hindu groups that have luxury
accommodations for the cows that are
produced in their milk it's still sick
and twisted and bad and wrong you're
still talking about human beings getting
down on their hands and knees and
sucking the milk out of another species
tit it's still wrong and bad on so many
levels and although you can from a human
perspective claim that you're providing
that cow with a good life that's only
human definition of what a good life for
a cow would be it has nothing to do with
how that cow would live in the wild
right it has nothing to the Oryx the
wild ancestor of the cow right and it's
the same with how you treat a dog or a
pig one of these pigs that's being
raised then as if it were a dog as a
plaything this is a deeply problematic
and incredibly easy to refute worldview
that she has inherited from Peter Singer
ok but I continue her reply to this is
not over she says quote an elephant
cannot comprehend being used for
entertainment
but it may not appreciate the inability
to roam okay so she actually took it a
step further you're claiming again this
is completely consistent with Peter
singers original vision that because an
elephant doesn't have the continuity of
consciousness necessary doesn't have the
imaginative reflective capacity
necessary to understand the difference
between being exploited for human
entertainment and being in the
wilderness that therefore the elephant
is not harmed by the circus by the
petting zoo by being domesticated by
being exploited for human attainment
this is not being it and very simply put
this is nothing I find this incredibly
easy to refute but again I would just
ask where did this evaluation of
elephant intelligence come from because
I wouldn't I wouldn't even accept this
explanation for guinea pigs I mean you
know for some animals where maybe their
intelligence isn't that impressive to us
but have you even just read literature
we have centuries and centuries of human
beings living together with elephants
and for me like an ancient Buddhist
literature already you know 2,500 years
ago in ancient India human beings were
deeply impressed by and somewhat
terrified by the intelligence that
elephants had you know um and to my
knowledge the advancement of science and
research on animal behavior intelligence
has only deepened our appreciation for
the elephant as our fellow earthling as
a creature that has tremendous capacity
to remember and make decisions and plan
and use its time creatively and what
have you but means to me this this is a
justification as stupid as anything a
meat-eater says and it serves the same
fundamental purpose and it actually even
though it is a welfarist position as she
as she says though it shows no interest
in the welfare of these animals if you
want to see so that'll give you
nightmares
look at images of what really happens
when a human being cuts the tusks off of
an elephant that tusks there's you the
blood and gore and pain involved yes the
outer part of the Tusk is hard white
material but the inside is red and
bloody and full of nerve endings and to
watch a human being d.tusk
an elephant or cut the tests halfway
which is absolutely par for the course
absolutely as part of the domestication
of animals domestication of elephants at
some stage of their life and the whole
process of training an elephant of
breaking its will of making it of
domesticating an elephant the brutality
is unbelievable and yes it's very
psychologically complex brutality
because elephants are are so intelligent
I started I could say more I've spent
time around elephants in in Southeast
Asia but this is the example she chose
she didn't choose to use the example of
chickens or fish it's mind-blowing to me
that someone who pretends to be vegan
someone who claims to be vegan would say
this about about elephants showing
apparent absolutely no interest in
elephants in what the domestication
exploitation of elephants really means
in terms the harm done to them and also
no interest to know if intelligence
she's just dogmatically proceeding for
the fact that Peter Singer claimed
animals have no continuity of
consciousness and that therefore you can
kill them without harming them so
obviously it's it's not much of a leap
of inference for her to imagine that you
can castrate them with it harming them
or indeed you know elephants they go
through a cycle when they are in must
when their hormones are acting up and
they're trying to mate human beings
strapped down elephants in Chains to
restrain them during their must and that
also that would leave a powerful
impression on you whether you're vegan
or not just to see the physical struggle
that humans have to live
with and domesticate elephants and the
elephant nose you you don't have to
believe that elephants are close to
ourselves and intelligence to realize
that an elephant that is literally being
chained down to prevent it from
following its natural instincts of
trying to mate with the opposite sex
that human beings are restraining it in
the most brutal and obvious fashion
imaginable
try to deprive it of its natural
instincts and behaviors what do you
think the elephant fails to understand
about that situation and why would a
vegan say this sentence quote an
elephant cannot comprehend being used
for entertainment so there's somewhat
misleading quote here that the
questioner says utilitarian philosopher
Peter Singer is entirely motivated by a
desire to reduce suffering this leads
him to see no moral problem with ending
the life of an animal if it could be
achieved without that animal suffering
so I've already I think
raised enough concerns here to point out
how absurd this is on many different
levels today in 2017 I mean maybe in the
1960s this was really debated sincerely
today in 2017 do you think that there is
any debate within the vegan movement
about whether or not killing an animal
constitutes harm to that animal we have
so many debates within veganism but that
is not one of them there is no debate
about whether or not killing an animal
is harming it within veganism right but
a natural vegan takes her stand outside
of veganism and she takes her stand with
Peter Singer and this so-called
utilitarian tradition I agree with
singer she says quote while I personally
would not consume animals even if no
suffering could be guaranteed I have no
qualms with others choosing to do so so
that was a natural vegan stating she has
no qualms with other people eating
animal meat
yes as I quoted the beginning from
singer the animals are treated with
enough compassion if the animals are not
suffering ok
now maybe that's a fascinating
philosophical position to take but it's
not vegan it doesn't think of genius to
point out this is a non vegan philosophy
this is a non vegan political position I
continue to quote as you said this
cannot be guaranteed at least not at
this time
I either the killing an animal those
suffering cannot be guaranteed at this
time but what in the future we're gonna
have such technologically advanced ways
to kill animals that people can can eat
meat and still be called vegan that's
ridiculous
I continue my quote this is why I
promote eliminating or at least reducing
animal consumption as difficult as it
may seem it really is the best option in
terms of reducing animal suffering
buying chicken brace with humanely
raised on the label just does not cut it
close quote ok thank you
unnatural vegan I hope you will change
the name of your channel to a natural
reduce it Aryan utilitarian ok because
you're not vegan and you never have been
you've been a consistent clone of Peter
Singer for your entire YouTube career
and I'd like you to come out of the
closet and admit that you're not vegan
all right now it's not surprising to me
at all given that I know this about you
that you've come out and made mealy
mouth excuses for another vegan who is
really a fake vegan fully raw Christina
who wears leather shoes and you say from
various ways in various perspective that
doesn't matter you think that wearing
leather shoes is less important than
whether or not somebody supports the use
of vaccines ok my opinion on vaccines is
immaterial I'm basically Pro science so
you know you can fill in the blanks
believe it or not vaccines are not part
of veganism people can be Pro vaccine or
anti vaccine and still be
and people can be pro-abortion or
anti-abortion and still be vegan but
these issues we've been talking about
Swayze unnatural vegan these are
actually central to the definition of
veganism whether or not killing animals
is acceptable whether or not wearing
leather shoes are is acceptable this is
not extraneous to or outside of veganism
alright so you're dead wrong to make
excuses for a vegan someone who claims
to be vegan in the vegan mover a leader
in the vegan movement wearing leather
shoes on the basis that wearing leather
shoes is from your cute little
perspective less important than whether
or not they endorse the use of vaccines
on the grave of Karl Marx there is a
saying there's a quote from Marx himself
Marx said famously that the purpose of
philosophy is not just to describe the
world not just analyze the world not
just to understand the world the purpose
of philosophy is to change it okay a lot
of the time my fellow vegans they put a
great deal of emphasis on that aspect of
the Western tradition of philosophy but
another important aspect going back to
ancient Greece and Rome another
important aspect of the Western
tradition of philosophy is to look at
the meaning of our lives and what is to
lead a meaningful life and to test our
philosophies not just in terms of
whether they are true or false but
whether or not we can live with them
whether or not they lead us to living a
meaningful life I think the most
fundamental philosophical struggle we
have in veganism is actually just of
showing people that veganism is possible
that it is possible and practicable to
be vegan and it always riles me I mean I
think it's the most fundamental
challenge is when people respond to the
idea or concept of challenge of veganism
by saying well you have to be reasonable
well let's just be realistic recently I
saw a vegan cheetah vegan Cheetos again
not really vegan saying that
for people to eat meat once a once a
month would be more realistic for the
vast majority of human beings the idea
that it is ethically incumbent upon you
to be vegan will only arise after they
consider it possible and practical right
it's only when it's an attainable goal
when it can be a normal part of our
daily lives or weekly lives that we can
really think about whether or not
morally it's obligatory for us to do so
right and I just do not understand why I
mean there are people who live with the
fundamental delusion that if they don't
eat meat they will die I've met and
spoken to those people in Canada but in
Cambodia also there's some people who
are really due to lack of education they
actually believe they will die if they
don't eat meat you can meet people of
maybe more commonly West world who
really sincerely believe that if they
don't eat dairy products their health
will deteriorate and they will die ok
nobody believes that you need to wear
leather shoes and if you don't wear
leather shoes you will die nobody within
this movement is is laboring under that
delusion right and I have to ask if you
look at any other social movement or any
other philosophy that has sought to
change the world who has suffered less
than we have somebody like Faliro
Christina who's very proud of her
appearance I think most of her fame is
because there are a lot of other women
who want to look like her they maybe
want to look like her in terms their
physique but they also want to look like
her in terms of their lifestyle the
illusion of opulence and affluence she
has long around her I can I can
appreciate that someone like Faliro
Christina would suffer would really
suffer
and having to give up her leather shoes
okay but if this is a philosophy about
changing the world I ask you who has
suffered less it's not it's not a lot of
suffering it's not a lot to ask for
someone who identifies as vegan and as a
leader in this movement and in the other
hand when I look at this tradition of
excuses
this highly hallowed highly respected
tradition of utilitarian and
consequentialist excuses for castrating
an animal because the animal is
allegedly incapable of intellectually
appreciating that it's had its own balls
cut off even if it can smell the
difference even it sees there even in
the case of a dog it literally the dog
licks its own balls and yet it doesn't
notice doesn't notice the total change
in its hormonal composition and its
behavior from being gastrin that it's
okay even to kill an animal that it's
okay even to kill an animal and eat its
flesh as stated by a natural being in
here we just had a quote from Peter
Singer saying that he has no problem
with killing animals as long as it's
compassionate we have a quote from
unnatural vegan saying she has no
problem with people killing animals and
eating them as long as there is no
suffering involved I think these are all
excuses that really come from an era
when people were profoundly uncertain
about whether or not being truly vegan
was possible I think they come from an
era when people were trying to make
excuses for eating meat I don't think
anyone was trying to make excuses for
domesticating elephants for
entertainment I have no idea I have no
idea why she took it there she chose
that example not me but I mean in the
same way that vegans now have to look at
the whole edifice of modern Western
factory farming and just say this is an
error this is a mistake and it's wrong
I think we have to look back on an
earlier generation of vegan philosophers
like Peter Singer vegan vegan political
leaders like Peter Singer we have to
look back at them and say this is a
mistake this is wrong